Congratulations!  You are good enough at Italian to have navigated your way all the way to my first post... in Italian.
Here's how these blogs will work:
The Italian section (where you are now) will have all content in Italian.  This seems like common sense, but remember that I will be speaking about multiple different languages here.  Use the search bar (above) or scan through to find blogs discussing your target language, or don't and be totally confused.
I encourage you to subscribe for the newsletter down below.  This way you can stay up to date on the latest awesome material being posted and keep your motivation flowing!  Remember, your language progress will only slow as your motivation runs out.  So let's keep you fueled!
Now for the good stuff... how do I start to learn a language?  Good question.  You will have to wait until I post again to find out!
When I ask most people, "Why don't you learn a new language?" the most common response isn't, "It doesn't seem interesting."  Obviously everyone would like to learn a new language but they think that it takes too much time.  And... who has that much time?
Everyone.  Everyone has the time to take on a new language.  Let's start with the morning:  How much time do you spend in the car?  In the shower?  Do you have a break for lunch?  How much time do you waste on Facebook and Instagram and blogs (this blog is ok)?  In summary, you all have the time and you know it.  For example:  I spend 60 minutes in the car, I take a long shower for 15 minutes, have a break for lunch, spent 30 minutes on Facebook (not anymore)... every day.  Just with these examples I have found more than two hours that I can dedicate to studying!
By now you are thinking, "It sucks to study more than two hours every day!"  You're right, it would be very difficult to study with a book in front of you all of the time, but we don't study like this.  I will tell you better in the next post.
Remember to leave a like and subscribe to the site!  You will find the links for Facebook, Instagram and YouTube at the bottom.  Let me know if you have other questions and good luck with your adventure!
Right, you didn't read that wrong.  I am trying to teach my son, Atlas, Italian even though I don't even speak it perfectly... not even close!  It is an experiment.  In fact, he is learning Italian (from me), English (from his mom) and also Russian (from the nanny).  I have already noticed three things that we can all learn from kids about language studying.
Don't be afraid to make mistakes - I have chosen this as number one for a reason.  We learn from mistakes.  When we make mistakes our brain remembers quicker the next time that we use that same sentence or word.  The brain is constructed in a way that makes it try to reduce errors so it is important to let them happen!  Kids are not worried about mistakes and this is a reason why they are able to learn quicker than us.

Always practice - When you learn a foreign language you will make the most profound improvements if you study in every spare moment.  As soon as possible you should try to think in the language, writing, reading and listening when you can.  Kids don't have other options.  They are always surrounded by the language.
Learn what is relevant to you - It is not a secret that there are thousands and thousands of words but you don't need them all.  It would be more fun and more useful to learn those that you find fun and useful.  We see that kids first learn how to ask for whatever they want people that's what is relevant to them.
In summary, don't be afraid, think in the language whenever possible and learn about what gives you the fire to continue.  I invite you to subscribe to the site here under the blog and comment if you have questions or suggestions!
You have finally decided to learn English.  I'm sure that some of you have already started and some of you even have studied it for a long time.  You're level doesn't matter, but it is important to always keep these three tips in mind when you study English.
Don't memorize all of the words (only some) - It takes so many words to be able to speak a language.  It's true, so how can you learn without memorizing?  Use the shortcuts that already exist!  English is made 60% of Latin words.  Therefore, it would be easy for you to remember most of the words without much effort!  You only have to link the similarities.  Sure there are still 40% of the words that don't resemble Italian at all but you have a good start!
Practice the accent - Those who speak English after have studied how to reproduce the accent are able to learn faster when listening.  This is very important because listening is one of the most convenient and efficient ways to learn a foreign language.  If you learn the accent your brain will better understand the structure of the words.  It is easy enough to practice the pronunciation.  Choose a song or a series and repeat the words and sounds that you hear.
(Opinion) Don't waste money on lessons - There are so many ways to learn a new language, especially if you have chosen English.  If you have the dedication to stay on the right path there is no reason to spend your salary on expensive lessons!  In the posts that follow I will suggest some of these resources.  I will give you some suggestions as well if your problem is that you can't find the dedication to study every day.
I hope that you have found this post useful and am excited to share more suggestions for you in the future!  Don't forget to subscribe at the bottom of this page and to leave me a like!  Let me know in the comments if you have other questions for me and I will respond quickly!
After having reached an intermediate level in Italian I have moved my attention to German.  Even though I have learned from mistakes when I studied Italian, I have made other mistakes with German.  Every time that I add another language, I learn more about how to learn from the beginning.  I hope to give you a rough plan about how I have discovered the best way to learn as quickly as possible.  Note that these methods work for me.  There is always the possibility that you will find a way that works better for you.
I'm reminded about Atlas's progress (my son who is almost two) while he learns how to communicate.  Even if he is almost two and can understand only some of three different languages, he doesn't speak at all.  Let's say he is organizing the languages in his head and is not yet ready to form sentences.  There's no argument, kids can learn to speak very quickly.  We can learn a lot from their methods.
It this time he listens and learns.  That means I do the same in the first months.  I study with my ears.  I start with the alphabet, music and a program to study language.  The alphabet should be your friend, the foundation.  In addition, the alphabet is very easy to learn so you don't have any reason to skip it.  From now on don't allow yourself to list to Italian music.  The ears let the accent and words enter even if you are not aware of it, that means you must only listen to music in the foreign language.  Finally, find a program that you can use to study and use it at least 30 minutes every day.  I suggest you find a free way to study because there are numerous free programs!
By now you are not speaking your target language, or rarely.  I am sure that your mouth is impatient to start!  Now you can start to speak your foreign language.  It will feel strange and it will make you uncomfortable but you have to continue!  Remember to be like a child during this time; start to think in the language when you can and repeat the words that come to mind.  Check your level to see when you are ready to speak with others.  Until you are ready to communicate in the new language you should speak whenever possible... when you are in the car or alone at home.  Always continue with the lessons and music, studying for at least 50 minutes in total every day (try to split the time in two).  In these months it would be smart as well to find a book to help yourself when you have questions about grammar and search songs that you hear on the web to better understand the lyrics.  There is an app called Musixmatch that links to Spotify and iTunes that will show you the lyrics to songs as you listen.
From this point on it will be more fun and scary.  Continue to do all that you have been doing up to now but add conversations in your secondary language.  Don't be afraid to make mistakes as I've told you before.  In fact, you learn more when you make mistakes.  If you can't find people to talk to, you will be able to find a lot of people on the app called HelloTalk.  Here you take part in a language exchange.  You help people with Italian and they help you with their language... and it doesn't cost anything!  It is not so difficult to study now because 50% of the time you write and speak with people.  I suggest that you study at least 60 minutes every day in addition to the conversations and music.
After 9 month you should start to think completely in the new language.  Sure it will be difficult but stay strong!  Every time that you find another word or sentence that you don not know, take out the cell phone to use the translator.  Now you must build your vocabulary and get used to the speed of the speech of native speaker with conversations on the TV (without subtitles in Italian).  If you haven't yet finished your program that you have selected, you can also do that.  However, above all, remain in contact with real people.
Obviously these intervals change if you study a language much different from Italian or if you have already studied many languages.  I hope that you have learned a bit and that you continue to read these posts!  Leave me a like and a comment if you have questions.  Don't forget to subscribe at the bottom of the page!
It would be the same as if you said, "See you after."  It doesn't make sense if it stands alone.  Most likely if you've said this, the other person waited a bit before realizing that you had finished speaking.  Since we don't say, "See you after" in English without adding the subject that follows, it would be better to say "See you later" or "See you after work/ the game/...".
You often use the double negative in Italian.  This rule is difficult for native English speakers to get used to when they learn Italian in part because it isn't correct at all to speak this way in English.  Remember that you should never use the double negative.  That means instead of "I didn't see nobody", it becomes "I didn't see anybody".  In this case we substituted "anybody" for "nobody"  since the former is not a negative form and we have already used a negative word (didn't/ did not).
It's apparent that some of you have a problem with the third person singular in English.  Maybe when you are learning English you throw out the memories of verb conjugations.  Don't do this so quickly.  We also form verb conjugations in the third person singular.  We do so by adding -s at the end of the verb (in most cases).  For example:  He runs to the beach, she cleans the house, it needs a car.
This phase is very common and often used to start a thought about what one has done in the past days.  We almost never use this phrase in English.  It would be better if you deleted these words from your dictionary when you speak English.  Use the word "lately".  For example:  Lately, we have been running every night.  Have I told you lately that I love you?
An instance of literal translation, this phrase doesn't make sense in English.  We say, "I agree with you".  Unfortunately, there are many instances like this and they are different in each case.  Don't worry however because you will learn after having practiced with a native speaker.
If you want to leave your pride behind and sound like a native English speaker you will have to pronounce some Italian words incorrectly.  If you were to pronounce the word "pistacchio" as you are used to, it would be almost impossible for a native English speaker to understand.  I don't speak for England but in the United States we all pronounce it "pistascio".  If you ask for the pistachio flavor (pronounced as if you were Italian), they will never understand you.
I hope you've learned some things with this blog!  Let me know if you have questions that come to mind that I haven't explained here and don't forget to subscribe under this blog!
I have discovered that some of you don't know when to use <I've> or <I have>.  This means you don't understand when it is allowed to combine the subject with the verb <have>.  I have heard that some Italian teachers also get this topic wrong!  I will make it more clear.
Don't use <___'ve> to form a possessive sentence unless you add the verb <got> at the end:
Don't use <___'ve> with the negative <not>.  You can instead combine <have> and <not> to form <haven't>:
These rules exist only for English spoken in the United States.  It would be a little different for those in England.  However, unlike how many Italian teachers say, <___'ve> and <___ have> are not the same.  It is important to note that <___ have> always fits.  In summary, if you aren't sure which form to use, it is always correct just to say <___ have/has>.  It is also worth it to note that it is incorrect to combine words like this if you are writing a formal document.  Give a look at these examples to better understand and let me know if you have other questions!  If you think of other problems that you have with English let me know and I can explain it in the next blog!
Not a single language learner has ventured down their path to success without a few stumbles.  Even the greatest polyglots (a speaker of multiple languages) had to learn how to learn at some point.  Every one has a different learning style but here are some basic things to dodge when starting to learn a new language to avoid wasted time or worse, quitting:
If you take the fun out of learning language, your efforts will not be sustainable.  No matter how motivated you think you are, you cannot sit down and do something that you don't enjoy every single day for years.  There are an infinite amount of tools out there to learn a language.  If you do not currently enjoy your time studying your target language and are lost on how to fix this, feel free to reach out to me for help and we will find a way!  Find what is fun for you and enjoy the process, not just the thought of the final goal.
Learning a language is a long process.  There is no way around this.  Even though some methods will get you to fluency quicker than others, there is no magic potion!  If you encounter a site that claims "Be fluent within months..." be weary.  Unless you have superhuman abilities or are learning a language almost identical to your own, this will not happen.  Going in to learning with these expectations can discourage you and slow your progress.
Many people say they are learning a language, and they actually think they are, but they are actually memorizing a language.  Instead of starting with the basics of the alphabet and pronunciation, these people start by memorizing phrases without understanding the word meanings or sentence structure.  Do not fall into this trap.  Yes, you will be able to impress family and friends with your mental phrasebook, but having conversations with native speakers this way will be impossible.  Native speakers do not follow a phrasebook.  Don't take shortcuts.  Start with the basics.
This is a tough one for most people.  When learning a language you will get stuck on grammatical and conjugational rules that you do not understand.  It is important to study these thoroughly, and if you still do not understand after substantial effort... move on.  Continue to study other aspects and your brain may piece together what you were previously stuck on as you learn other aspects of the language!
I have been asked multiple times which program works best for language learning.  There is no simple answer to this as it varies depending on your learning style.  Here is a quick review for three of the common language learning platforms that I have used that service multiple languages:  Rosetta Stone, Babbel and Duolingo.  Note:  finishing any of these programs will not make you fluent or even near fluent. 
I have chosen to base my current learning around Babbel but doing a trial of all of these programs is the best way to find what suits you best.
Cost:  $200 to $400 depending on deals running at time of purchase
General:  Rosetta Stone (usually) consists of 5 levels and teaches users a new language without using a base language.  This means the sole method of teaching is through images linked with the target language and trial and error learning.  Rosetta Stone software uses typing, reading, listening and speaking as the learning mediums.  Paired with an online subscription (about $100 annually), users also have access to stories, games and lessons with native speakers.
Pros:  (1) Rosetta Stone does not lean on your native language to teach you the target language.  With this method of learning you are less likely to feel the need to translate everything to and from Italian in your head as you use the language.  (2)  The software interface is well done and easy to navigate on desktop and mobile.  (3)  Vocabulary learned is useful in everyday situations.
Cons:  (1) Grammar is difficult to learn without the assistance of explanations in the native language.  In some cases grammar will be near impossible to learn and must be complimented with a grammar book.  (2) Reviews on past vocabulary is not done often enough and it can be hard to retain new vocabulary words.  (3)  Expensive relative to other options.
Cost:  Free
General:  Duolingo is targeted for mobile user but may also be done on the computer.  Duolingo teaches multiple languages through a native language unlike Rosetta Stone but uses pictures as well.  The mediums of learning are speaking, reading, listening and writing with an emphasis on translating sentences between the two languages through text.
Pros:  (1) Duolingo is a completely free option. (2)  Grammar concepts are explained through the use of in-text links when a new concept is used.  (3)  Duolingo courses are widely created by users for other users so there are a vast amount of languages to choose from with more being released regularly.
Cons:  (1)  Grammar concepts are explained but are often not explained in depth or reviewed.  (2)  Duolingo relies almost exclusively on translations between the target and native language.  This means you will tend to translate in your head while using the language, slowing you down.  (3)  Some vocabulary is not useful in day to day conversation and is not reviewed after introduction, making it difficult to retain.
Cost:  $7 to $13 per month depending on your sign up time
General:  Babbel is similar to Duolingo in that it teaches language through the use of a base language and photos.  The learning mediums are speaking, reading, writing and listening.  Lessons are set up into beginner, intermediate and specialized sections.
Pros:  (1)  Grammar concepts are explained and reviewed thoroughly throughout the lessons.  (2) The website and mobile app are easy to navigate and interesting enough to keep you motivated.  (3)  Material varies but most languages have additional lessons for different scenarios (i.e. workplace, parties) and grammar.
Cons:  (1)  Not a free option.  (2)  Uses translation instead of directly tying new vocabulary and concepts solely to photos.  (3)  Some vocabulary covered early is not common in normal conversations so it takes time to build up a useful vocabulary.
When you started to study English at school I'm sure that your teachers told you that there would be words that mean more than one thing.  Believe me, I understand that there are a lot of words like this in Italian as well but not as many as in English... I'm sure about that.  To give you an example let's study the very simple verb "to run".
Recently I was speaking with one of my Italian friends and I used this verb in a sentence different from that which she expected.  I didn't speak about the action "to run".  What?! Different definitions exist even for this word!?  I though that at least this word would be simpler than the others... I imagine that you're thinking something like that.  Let me clear the water with a big example in Italian and in English.
I was running late to the meeting because I had to run to the store earlier where I ran into Karlee (Karlee runs her mouth way too much).  I did not want to be late because when I have time to prepare I can really run a good meeting.  When I tried to start my car it would not run.  I thought to myself, "The bus only runs every 30 minutes."  I'm running out of time and now my nose is running!  I had run out of my allergy medicine earlier that week.  My only chance was to run.  While I was running, a car ran a red light and almost ran me over... In the long run, it would have been better to be late.
Now English even makes me go crazy!  I understand why most of you have problems with this verb in particular.  But stay calm... like I have already said about English, it's not necessary to remember all of the words but only to understand the meaning.  You don't have to use this word in all of these cases but you have to learn how to understand it when it is used in a different way.  This verb shows itself when something changes, acts, moves... Keep that in mind when you listen to native English speaker and you will understand easily.  After some time I think that you will be capable of understanding how to use this verb in several different ways!
Do you have some questions?  Let me know how I can be of service and I will write a blog about it if it seems like a lot of people have the same problem!  Don't forget to leave me a like and to follow us on the first page to receive some tips right away!
It has been said that if you stick a Dane, Swede, and Norwegian in a room together, while they may not be able to speak each other’s languages, they might just be able to understand each other’s. Linguists call this understanding of similar languages without outside study mutual intelligibility. But, would this work with a Spaniard, Frenchman, and Lusitanic?
My native languages are English and Hebrew. In school, I studied Spanish for 6 years and French for 4 years. My interest in foreign languages was growing so I started teaching myself Portuguese. Then, I learned of Galician and Ladino which are very similar to the languages that I had already been studying and in a few weeks, I was practically fluent in them. I have been learning Italian for just a couple weeks and I am now writing this article. In my studies, I have found that these romance languages have become easier and easier to understand, especially in terms of listening comprehension. However, I do not take this as proof of mutual intelligibility. Rather, I would say that there are some largely different languages, and some that fall in between. For example, Spanish and Portuguese are largely different and Galician falls in between them because of some shared history and politics which has impacted the languages over the years.
I think it is safe to say that if you stick a Spaniard and Galician in the same room they would get along better linguistically than sticking a Spaniard and Lusitanic in the same room, but there is still plenty of potential for some mutual intelligibility amongst them. However, one may argue that accents and dialects greatly affect the ability to hold a conversation. Considering how widely spread some romance languages are, we ought to save this topic for a rainy day.
English Filler Words: How to Sound like a Native, Even When You Lose Your Train of Thought
We all lose our train of thought sometimes and, at least for me, it seems to happen more often when practicing a target language. While we may have impeccable accents, it takes just one awkward pause in the middle of a sentence to be a dead giveaway of our non-nativeness. In this article, you can learn English filler words so you can still speak like a native, even if you momentarily can’t think of what you’re trying to say.
“Uh” and “um” can be used interchangeably and usually in the middle of a sentence before an uncommonly used word. For example, “I just dropped my phone in the, uh, gutter.”
“So” is often used at the start of a sentence and is great for when you blank out on transitionary phrases. For example, “So, yeah, I turned in my homework.”
“Like” is a common filler word, popularized by teenagers, and used sporadically throughout sentences. For example, “I was, like, ready to go but then my car, like, broke.”
“As I was saying” is a more intelligent filler that is good to use if you were interrupted or need to jump back to a point you were just making. This should be used at the beginning of a sentence.
“Anyway” is similar to “as I was saying” in terms of when it is used. However, this word can be used to shrug off the interruption and does not always require a follow-up.
Some fillers may be combined, such as “so” and “like” but you might want to avoid this if you are over the age of 14 because it’s often associated with middle school gossip. For example, “She is, so, like, uncool.”
Other filler word combinations though, such as, “So, as I was saying …” are viewed as a bit more professional and natural because they flow more nicely.
Hopefully these fillers help you not feel as stressed if you can’t think of a word in English right away. So, um, talk to you, like, later!
In 1621, 155 years before the United States was established as an independent country, the Pilgrims came from England in search of religious freedom from the Church of England. Soon after, the Mayflower Compact established Plymouth Colony in present day Massachusetts and the Pilgrims met the Native Americans. The two groups had a massive feast which became known as the first Thanksgiving.
This holiday is spent with family and many Americans travel to be with their extended families.
In recent years, a tradition of ‘Friendsgiving’ has arisen in which groups of friends celebrate together, but usually not on Thanksgiving Day. Just last Saturday I was at Friendsgiving dinner with some friends from my university and most of them were speaking Russian! I got to learn a bit from them, and I think Bryce and Atlas would have loved to be there!
The main course of Thanksgiving feasts is usually a Turkey, often stuffed with breadcrumbs, sausage, onion, and celery. Seafood is also served, specifically mussels and lobster because they are abundant in the New England region. Potatoes, corn, green beans, collard greens, and cranberry sauce are served on the side and pumpkin pie is the traditional dessert. My favorite parts of the meal are the seafood, green beans, potatoes, and pumpkin pie of course!
Every year, the department store Macy’s hosts the Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York City. My family and I watch it on TV and marvel at the dancers, musicians, floats, and massive balloons. The balloons are usually of famous cartoon, TV, and movie characters like Charlie Brown, Hello Kitty, Spongebob, and Pikachu. I would love to see this parade in person one day.
I can’t wait for Thanksgiving! Which part of the holiday would you be most excited to celebrate?
Writing in general is a rather new task for me.  I promised myself after graduating that I wouldn’t write anymore but here I am… writing again.  I suppose that there has always been a part of me that loved writing.  There’s something special when you are able to see your thoughts in front of you on paper (or on the computer screen in this case).  I hadn’t discovered this love again until I decided to learn new languages.
I should explain better from the beginning.  My girlfriend bought me an application almost 3 years ago for learning Italian.  I was determined that I would be able to speak Italian within a year.  Obviously, I didn’t understand very well what it meant to really speak a new language.  As you well know, you cannot obtain a fluent level in a language without speaking with people, listening to music and living with the language all around yourself.  I didn’t know that.  I continued to study just 30 minutes every day and finally, after a year at the computer, I finished the course and I thought that I would be able to speak with Italians.  I was excited and proud of myself.
I soon had my first realization.  Learning a foreign language takes more that I would have been able to imagine.  After having finished this app, I downloaded another called HelloTalk, where I could have a language exchange with native speakers that learned English.  I discovered immediately that my Italian knowledge wouldn’t be enough to speak with someone that didn’t speak English.
I would say my Italian adventure started here.  At this point I felt like it would be impossible to learn a new language without moving to the country where they speak the language.  But, I am stubborn.  I started to speak with more people that didn’t speak English.  It was difficult, and we often couldn’t understand what we were saying to each other.  However, day after day I realized that I didn’t need to the translator anymore.  Then we also started doing phone calls… and I could understand them!
Do you understand what that means?  It’s not worth it to study alone.  Sure, it’s comfortable to sit in front of the TV with an app and study alone.  When you are alone you won’t be embarrassed, you won’t make many mistakes.  You will be happy.  But to really learn a language is a ferocious process.  Your mind changes.  It changes how it functions, how it thinks and how it deals with the sounds that it doesn’t understand.  When you learn alone or in a classroom full of Italian native speakers, you remove this aspect.  Everything is easy and you’re never uncomfortable.
Instead, I invite you to try the method that I discovered a little late.  It’s possible with the internet to find native speakers of your target languages without paying a thing.  I suggest HelloTalk and Finite Languages.  There are other free resources that exist but I prefer these two because I’ve spent a good amount of time with them and they work.
I’m biased toward Finite Languages because I started it.  With this website you can write a blog in your secondary language and it will be corrected for free and published online!  This website didn’t always exist as a platform for other bloggers.  In the beginning I wanted to write alone in my secondary languages to better share how I leaned Italian (and German).  Here, I received by second realization.  I wrote a couple of blogs without asking help to correct them and my Italian community turned immediately. Obviously they weren’t happy to see their native language on their screen with so many mistakes.  They thought “And this guy wants to teach about language learning!?  Wow!”
Finally, I asked for help and I was able to publish the blogs in Italian and German without errors.  I didn’t receive any more messages out of anger from native speakers.  Soon after some of my friends asked me if they could write blogs as well.  Of course after having realized how much help it could help to write in one’s target language, I accepted.
Find a friend that doesn’t speak Italian and exchange with them.  Work together to help one another.  It will be scary and embarrassing.  You will often make mistakes and there will be times that you don’t understand each other. But above all… there will be progress.
Nowadays there are so many apps that allow for international communication, some of which are designed specifically for language practice. One of these apps is HelloTalk but honestly, I’m not that big a fan of it. HelloTalk matches you with people whose mother language is your target language and whose target language is your mother language. That part is great, it’s what we do with our blogs! The part I don’t like is the massive swarms to my inbox that are difficult to deny and filter out.
Maybe I’m just lazy or picky when it comes to who I practice my languages with but my go-to sites for language messaging are Instagram and Facebook. On Instagram, I like following youtubers and bloggers because they tend to post consistently and more than a short little caption. On Facebook, there are polyglot groups where posts are in many different languages and the comments sections are lively, friendly, and constructive. No matter how or who you like to practice your languages with, I hope the following terms help you!
LOL- “laughing out loud”
LM(F)AO- “laughing my (fat) ass off” More grown up version of LOL
UR- “you are”
QT- “cutie”
Prolly- “Probably”
gm/gn- “good morning/good night”
omw- “on my way”
brb- “be right back”
wanna/gonna/bouta- “want to/going to/about to” Pretty much any phrase that has ‘to’ at the end of it can be shortened to an ‘a’ tacked on to the last word and the ‘to’ dropped all together
hbu/wbu- “how ‘bout you/what about you”
rn- “right now”
How do you like to practice your casual language skills? HelloTalk, WhatsApp, Instagram, Facebook, something else? Let me know in the comments!
