Power sport and women – a heart and a soul or an odd pair?!

Unfortunately, the next time I can’t pursue my hobby -Calisthenics- in full. Also, all my
beloved muscles are as good as gone -schnief-. That's probably why I often think about doing sports 3 to 6 times a week for 2 to 4 hours. And I don’t mean endurance sports - that's really not me.

For those who are not familiar with Calisthenics, here is a short description: In principle you train with your own body weight -push ups, pull ups, dips, squats, the human flag, front and back lever, etc.- and outside. But sure, there are some variations in Calisthenics. You can use additional weights and you can train inside (just when it’s bad outside). It’s a workout for women and men, no matter if you are young or old. And NO, it isn’t Freelethics!

As with any other sport, Calisthenics shows some successes. The musculature builds up, changes the body visibly and the exercises are easier or you can do more (reps or increased level of difficulty). Even as a woman you can get among other things, a sportsman's cross (so-called V-cross) and a thick biceps. Wether is visually appealing to others should not bother you.

Before I had to break with the Calisthenics, I managed 8 pull ups (3 reps with 13,2 pounds extra weight), 45 push ups, 18 dips and and and… And sure, you saw it on me. I loved the sight in the mirror, even if normal shopping was no longer possible and other guys
(especially women) looked at me critically. Since I was really aware of how it had to go from girlfriends of mine who could do much more like me.

But that didn‘t matter. My fiance loved it. I always trained with him. It was time for us. Sometimes alone, sometimes with friends and sometimes with strangers. We located the workout parks (bars) and let off steam each vacation. And my real friends also encouraged me to get better at my project. You should try Calisthenics, if you take pleasure in it, even if it is unusual for a woman to be involved in this rather masculine sport.

I love Calisthenics and I'll do it again sometime fully. Stay relaxed, show biceps 
